Now we're going to get into APIs and
promises. So currently, our cat book is static.
There isn't any information showing or using the
fact that we're different users. So, I mean,
unless you hard coded it, don't think think
it says your name. It says like Shannon
Wu or something. And also, every time you
click, you get some number, but then whenever
you refresh, it just resets back to zero.
And if if you look to our posts,
they're all the same for us. And maybe
we'd want some kind of data that is
specific to each user. And so that's where
the back end comes in. Back end is
used for data storage and data manipulation. So
our front end would send requests to our
back end and our back end would send
whatever we find information that our front end
wants. And so, we're going be using the
client server architecture. So currently, you guys are
the clients, browsers, and you guys will be
sending requests to some server. And after the
server receives your request, it's going send back
a response back to you, the client. And
basically, the server is just where we have
all of our information. And so right now,
whenever we're doing NPM run dev, the front
end is being served to you. So all
the HTML, CSS, and JavaScript it takes to
render your website is all sent from currently
a server, but it's not necessarily sending any
data back to you guys yet, so we'll
be working on that. For that, how do
we actually send requests to a server? There
has to be some standardized way. We can't
just send an e mail to a server
asking for data. We can't telepathically ask a
server to send this information. So there has
to be some standardized way of sending information
or rather sending requests from a client to
server and then receiving a response that we
can access. And so the protocol that we'll
be using is HTTP, and basically what HTTP
stands for is Hypertext Transfer Protocol, and you've
actually been using HTTP requests and responses every
time you request a website or I don't
know, you want to load a specific video
from YouTube, the way that you get all
that information is through HTTP requests. And HTTPS
is just HTTP but secure, so all the
information that's being sent back and forth is
encrypted in some way, and so people who
are in between you and the server won't
be able to actually decipher what your request
has, so it's safe from anybody trying to,
I don't know, modify your request in some
way or receive information in a malicious way.
So right now, we're going be going over
the structure of an HTTP request. So we
have the request target plus parameters, HTTP method,
headers and body. And to give you guys
some kind of motivation to why we care
about this structure, I'll give you guys an
example. So if we Let's see if I
can If we were to send a request
to YouTube to show us any videos that
have Web Lab in its description or in
the video, then we would be sending this
URL into our browser. I'll talk about the
many ways to send HTTP requests later, but
just putting a URL into a browser is
one of them. So here we have a
YouTube request and it's going be a GET
request since we want to get data. We
aren't posting data to a YouTube server, so
that would be like, I don't know, uploading
a video to YouTube which would be a
POST request. We have some metadata and then
our body of HTTP request would be empty
because it's a GET request. So now we're
going go into the nitty gritty of an
HTTP request. So first, the target URL and
query parameters. So HTTPS just tells us that
the protocol that we're using to send a
request is HTTPS. Next, we have www.youtube.com/results, and
that's the URL of a server. So this
is where we're sending our request to. Generally,
YouTube would have some kind of mega computer
with a bunch of data storage, and we're
sending it to the computer with that IP
address. And then results just tells us that
So the computer for YouTube is going to
have some kind of endpoint where we would
send requests specifically for searching specific YouTube videos.
So here in this case, we have the
videos with the search query being WebLab. So
if we just sent a request without any
query parameters, we wouldn't receive any YouTube videos,
but this search query helps us refine what
data we want to receive from YouTube server.
Any questions before we move on? No? All
good? Okay, cool. So HTTP methods. So there
are many types of requests to send to
a server. Of them, there are get request
which gets data. We have the post request
which sends data. We have the put request,
which places data, and the delete request, which
deletes data. For this class and mostly in
general, you'll be using get and post requests
for sending and posting data. I mean, receiving
and posting data. Yeah. Questions? Alright, so now
we're going look into the request body and
request headers. So request headers for an HTTP
request is all the fancy stuff that comes
with the information that we want or information
that we're sending to a server. So for
example, if we're sending some data to a
server and we want to specify, oh, what's
the timestamp of this request, what language is
this request in, All that metadata about our
request is stored in our request headers. Then
our request body is where we put any
data associated with a post request. So, for
example, like if you want to post a
YouTube video into server's YouTube server, we'd be
sending a YouTube video through the request body.
However, for get requests, again, like four, we
put whatever parameters we want in our target
URL. So an example of a request body
would look like this. So a request body
uses a JSON format, and basically what a
JSON format is, is just key value pairs.
So you can see that for a name
or key of name, we'd have a value
that's actually a name and a specific language.
So this is how most of our data
is going to be organized and that is
how the request body is organized. So now
that we've covered how a request is structured,
we're going to look at how a response
is structured. So let's get into that. So
status codes. So whenever we send a request
to a server, the server is going respond
in some way, and an example would be
the dreaded 404. So this means that the
resource that you were looking for could not
be found, and this can happen if, I
don't know, you put in the wrong URL,
or maybe the resource you were looking for
was moved to a different endpoint, so you'd
have to look through the website's documentation to
see where you could find the information that
you're looking for. Another common error is 400,
a bad request, And this could happen if,
I don't know, you malform your query parameters,
so you put a query parameter that maybe
doesn't exist for the data that you're looking
for, or yeah. And then another common one
is 505 means that the server errored out
in some way. So so it's not your
fault, it's the server's fault. And then you
have a 200. Two hundred, it's good. Your
request reached the server and it was handled
correctly. And so, generally, hundreds place of your
error code signifies what kind of error code
it is. If it starts with a one,
it's informational. If it starts with a 2,
you succeeded. Starts with a 3, you got
redirected. Starts with a 4, you did something
wrong, and then start with a 5, server
did something wrong. And usually, you'll be seeing
two, four, and five, and maybe some threes
if your website uses caching. That's the response
body. Any questions? All right. I mean, sorry.
That's status codes. So now let's look at
response headers and response body. So the response
headers, like request headers, is just a bunch
of metadata about a request and usually you
don't have to worry about that stuff, just
content type, content length, boring stuff that we
don't care about. Then we have the response
body. So the response body is going to
hold all the information that we requested from
our server if we sent a get request
to server. And usually, whenever we have a
post request, like if we're posting a comment
onto Catbook or something, we'll probably send it
back just to confirm that this comment was
actually posted on our website. And again, this
is also in JSON format. So that's the
response. Questions? So, I mentioned earlier that there
are many ways to send requests and we'll
actually just go into a Catalog example to
see how these requests are sent from a
website. So you guys don't have to do
anything, but let's see. Go to capbook.capbook. Example
or actually, weblab. Isexample. Let's see if I
can screen share this. Okay. I'm sorry for
the Zoom people. You can't see this. Okay.
Cool. So if we open up inspect tab
and then go to network, network is where
we see all the requests that our website
makes. If we request, we see all these
requests, requests to PNGs, requests to the comments,
requests to stories. And if we actually click
on one of these, click the one that
represents our stories, you can see that it's
a get request because we want to get
our stories. The URL is going to be
the server that we're using. This is not
the Catbook that we're implementing right now, so
it's a different server. And we can go
to response. You can see that it is
all in JSON format. So that's just a
cool way if you guys want to mess
around in the network tab to see more
about requests. Now, another way to send requests,
like usually you're sending requests through your browser,
you can just type a URL. Those types
of requests are all get requests since you
don't have any space to put all the
information you would like in a post request.
Put stuff in the request body, but there's
no place to put stuff in the request
body for a URL. So there are other
ways to actually send post requests. I think
an interesting example of another way to send
requests is through your terminal. You can do
it independent of your browser. So if you
guys would like, you guys can open up
your terminal and just run curl httpswww.google.com. And
you end up getting a bunch of HTML,
CSS, and JavaScript that represent the website for
www.google.com. As you can see, we have some
HTML up here, and then this is badly
formatted. It's all JavaScript. And so that's just
another way to send HTTP requests. And then
finally, the way that you guys will be
sending HTTP requests will be through JavaScript. So,
I'll give you guys a second to parse
all of this. But essentially what we're doing
is we're using the fetch function in JavaScript
to send a request to some server and
we abstracted out the fetch function so that
you can just put an endpoint and the
parameters for get request and for both the
get and post request. And this is how
you'll be requestingmodifying most of your data and
you'll be using it in workshop three. I'm
going pass it on to Daniel so that
he can go over APIs. Oh, wait. Yeah.
Hi everybody. Hi. I'm Daniel and I'll be
talking about APIs. So API stands for Application
Program Interface. And in summary, it's basically a
set of endpoints that some service provides that
allows you to make requests to that service
in order to perform a function. That might
sound confusing to you but I'll give a
few examples right here and then I think
it'll make a lot more sense after I
explain the examples. Examples. So a lot of
companies provide APIs that you can use to
essentially incorporate into your own website. So just
as an example, the Google Calendar API, our
WebLab website at weblab.mit. Actually uses the Google
Calendar API to display all of our lectures
on the on our course calendar. So we
just have a Google Calendar that we update
and then the website automatically pulls from that
Google Calendar and updates our website. So the
way that we do that is by using
a Google Calendar API that Google provides that
our website is then able to use to
display our calendar. Another example is the Amazon
selling partner API. Let's say you wanted to
incorporate into your website a way for you
to essentially buy thing buy a product on
Amazon, then you could do that by using
the Amazon API to incorporate some sort of
Amazon interactive portion of your website so that
if you're selling some product, you're able to
click some buttons on your website and it
kind of like shoots off some Amazon order
for your website. And then lastly is maybe
an OpenAI LLM API. So OpenAI provides a
bunch of APIs that you can use online
where essentially you can send it some request
and it'll respond with some data. So maybe
you send it some random request for like
help me with my math homework and then
it responds with like some response with that
answers your question basically. And there's thousands of
APIs online, some are free, some cost money.
Like I think the OpenAI one might cost
like some amount of money per query that
you have but like in general, they are
there to help you be able to do
things that maybe are really difficult to do
or impossible for you to do on your
own. So the purpose of an API, if
you're going to need to access data or
something or like do some things that maybe
your website doesn't have access to. And the
servers won't just let you, like for example
Google, they won't just let you look directly
into their servers and be like, Oh, what's
going on over here? And then you'd be
able to just kind of look at every
single user potentially in their database and that
would potentially be a security nightmare because you
could maybe just look at everybody's passwords and
be like, oh great, I can just log
into my friend's account now and do whatever
I want. But what they do provide is
a way for you to interact with that
data by doing predefined functions that they give
you. So yeah, so that's what APIs essentially
are. And now you can basically do whatever
you want or not whatever you want but
kind of a lot of things just by
asking the right people and in the right
way. So as Lucas talked about already, we
are working in kind of a client server
model. So far we've only coded our client
in workshop two but we're going to be
coding our server in workshop three which will
respond to our client using HTTP responses and
sorry, requests and responses. So you might imagine
that your client sends a GET or a
POST request to your server and then your
server responds with an HTTP response. That server
is eventually going to be connected to a
database which will store data that your server
needs and so that that data will persist
forever. But even if your server crashes, it'll
be able to retrieve that data still because
the data will still reside in that database.
Now let's imagine that you wanted to connect
like some APIs to your website. Let's say
like Google Calendar and OpenAI and you want
to interact with both of these. What the
essentially like the things that I don't know,
responses and requests will look like is that
your client will send these responses through your
server and then your server will forward those
responses to the APIs which will then be
able to respond back to your server and
your server can then respond back to your
client with the response that it needs basically.
Being like, hey, you asked for this from
the API, I got that from the API
and now here I'll give it back to
you. So your code is basically responsible for
everything in the client, the server, and the
database. In workshop three we'll basically be talking
about how to get this client and server
interaction going. Yeah. So what is the purpose
of the server? You might ask why can't
this client just directly interact with the database
and directly interact with the APIs? Well in
our model the client is kind of like
the browser. So if your client was able
to directly interact with the database or the
other APIs, then that would mean that when
you inspect element in your browser you would
be able to see everything that is going
on. Which is kind of a problem because
then maybe you'll be able to see like,
oh here's my API key for this API.
And if you're writing a website, you don't
want users of your website to be able
to see all of the potential keys and
database passwords and stuff like that that you're
using. So you kind of want this server
that you manage and then clients are able
to request and respond to your server basically.
So the server is kind of your code
that you control whereas the client kind of
the client's going to be users of your
website that you might not be able to
control exactly what they're doing over there. So
the easiest way that you can think of
is just like going into inspect element and
changing some stuff around on your website. That's
not changing what's going on in the server
but it's changing on what's going on within
the client. Yeah so as Lucas already mentioned,
whenever we access a URL you're making a
request to an endpoint. So just some examples,
these are from our example website. We have
a GET request for all the stories, a
POST request for a story, etcetera, etcetera. I
think I'm just going to skip past this
part. So we're going to just look at
one quick example. How much time do I
have left? Oh shit. Okay. How much time
can I no? Okay. Okay. No. Okay so
here's the YouTube API. Okay I won't go
over the example but I think in the
slides you can just kind of look over
it and I think it's decently, hopefully kind
of self explanatory. When you have an endpoint
and query parameters, those query parameters will get
formatted after the question mark each following key
value pairs. So the colors are just mapped
to the same color. Hopefully that makes sense.
Here's some examples of some really cool APIs
that you could think about incorporating into your
own website. I already went over a few
of these but like the dog API, you
can just query for cute examples of random
dogs. Yeah. I would encourage you guys to
look over these and maybe some other online
API lists to like an example for maybe
things that you can incorporate into your own
website. Okay, yeah so we've gone over how
these API requests work if you just write
it out into your URL, but you can
also do these in JavaScript. The way that
we do this is using the get and
post functions that Lucas talked about. Instead of,
sorry the first parameter of the get or
the post function is generally just the endpoint
that we want to query and then it's
followed by whatever parameters that we want to
use and then the get and post functions
will actually just do all the work for
you. It'll send a fetch request for that
URL. So basically you can think of it
as these functions are doing the dirty work
of actually filling in the URL and filling
in the body of it for you. So
you can just fill in the URL and
fill in the parameters and that's all you
need to worry about. Okay. Can you go
to the announcement slide? Where's that? Alright. Could
you guys open up the feedback link and
give us feedback? We'll give you like one
minute to do that. Yeah. While you're doing
that, I can show you guys something cool
from the example. If you look at the
answer here, it should work if you copy
paste into your own browser. So if you
like just do it here, you'll get the
response that let me zoom in a bit.
You'll get the response from the YouTube server
that tells you that it's essentially listing out
all the playlists that we that we requested
and we use the web lab YouTube for
the request. So we just take this ID
here for example and then we go to
youtube.com/playlist and then list equals and then we
copy paste this in here, we'll get the
IAP 2025 playlist from Web Lab. So yeah,
that's pretty cool. I think, yeah, this should
work on your own computers too. Okay.